CSC 210: Introduction to Computer Programming
Programming Homework 1 Total Points: 10%
For this assignment you will be developing a simplified version of Chess as follows:
1. (1%) Initialization:
a. Initialize the 8x8 chess board to the usual starting state of a chess game.
Use a 2D array of Strings for this step.
b. Prompt the user to choose the color (s)he wants to start the game with:
black or white.
c. Displaythecurrentstatusofthechessboard,andthecolorthattheuseris
currently playing for.
2. (1%) Move Inputs:
a. Prompttheusertomakeamove.
b. The user has to specify the current location of the piece (the row index,
and then the column index), and the desired destination of the piece (again, row and column index). For example, if the user specifies 0, 0, and then 2,0, then (s)he wants to move the piece at location (0,0) to location (2,0), which is 2 squares vertically.
c. Check forvalidrowandcolumnindexes.
3. (6.5%) Making the Move:
The program needs to check the following to complete the move.
a. Check if there is a piece of the correct color at the specified current location. If there isn’t, then inform the user and, go back to step 2.
b. Check if the destination location is empty. If it is not, then inform the user and, go back to step 2.
i. A king can move one square in any direction (horizontally, vertically, or diagonally).
￼Check whether the resulting move is allowed for the piece. The following are the allowed set of moves: (Note: Each of the above rules should be implemented as a separate method.)
￼
￼ii. The queen can move any number of squares in any direction (vertically, horizontally, or diagonally).
iii. The rook can move any number of squares horizontally or vertically.
iv. The bishop can move any number of squares diagonally.
v. The knight moves in an “L” shape. For example, two squares vertically and one square horizontally, or two squares horizontally
and one square vertically.
vi. The pawn may move one square forward.
vii. A piece cannot jump over other pieces in the path of the move, except for the knight.
￼￼c. If the requested move satisfies all the above requirements then complete the move, inform the user as such, and display the updated state of the chessboard.
￼4. (0.25%) Switch the color that will now make a move, and inform the user about it.
5. (0.25%)Ask the user if(s)he wants to contine playing or wants to end the game. If user chooses to continue then go back to Step 2 and continue from there, else exit.
(0.5%) Include comments wherever appropriate.
(0.5%) Your program needs to execute without errors, and produce the correct outcome(s).
There are many places in this assignment where the use of methods will reduce code repetition. Thus you are encouraged to use methods throughout this assignment (not just in step 3 where methods are mandatory).
You need to upload to ilearn one java file (named SimpleChess.java).
￼